"moje malo miau miau" = "my little meow meow"
https://nitter.net/lunectar/status/1536848167802634240
--
side note, remember when I was like "there's a weird amount of hrvatski in this one." yeah now they just casually use it 90% of the time ig #character-development
--
HR
	Bez brige, bez brige!!
	Sve je... more *ispod* most. [not a phrase in croatian but that's the point]

	... Ne. *More.*
	*Mnogo...* vode....

	Slušaj, Basile---
	IAKO! Sve nije loše!

	Znaš, kao Sunnyov priće! [left uncorrected on purpose]
	Sunnyeve... što?
	Priće!
	Ima *big---* (uh,) *veliko* more.
	More zauvijeka.

	I da, / *jest* zastrašujući...

	*Ali!* Isto je duboko!

	Dubok<u>a</u> [actually does this work??]--- čekaj,
	Bio li je kalambur?
	*Možda~?*

EN
	No worries, no worries!!
	Everything is... sea *under* the bridge.

	... No. *Sea.*
	*A lot...* of water....

	Listen, Basil---
	ALTHOUGH! All is not bad!

	Y'know, like Sunny's story!
	Sunny's... what?
	Story!
	It has a *big---* (uh,) *big[ in Croatian]* sea.
	Sea of forever.

	And yes, / *it is* terrifying...

	*But!* Also is deep!

	[correction??]--- wait,
	Was that a pun?
	*Maybe~?*
--
HR
	Danas!
	Želim pokušavat nešto... uh, nov!
	(Nešto novo?) (Da.) (Hvala!)
	
	(A-hem---) Reversal role-a!
	[Nemoj gledati!!!]
	Napisao sam **dva** imena cvijeća...
	You match! Učiš!
	...*Gdge* li naučio si ovi.
	Koji kurac je *"ptiče mlijeko"*/SRETNO!!!
	
	[(PUNO) KASNIJE.]
	**ETO.** BOŽE.
	Imala li si zabavno~?
	To... nije--- [*note: you don't say "have fun," verb "ima-" is ownership-have] IMAŠ. **MNOGO.** CVIJEĆA.
	
	Usput, uh--- Zaboravio si jedan.
	H-Huh? Kako---
	Imaš li olovku?
	Uh, da...
	
	[Bosiljak]

EN
	Today!
	I want to try something... uh, new!
	(Something new [gendered correctly]?) (Yeah.) (Thanks!)
	
	(A-hem---) Reversal of roles!
	[Don't look!!!]
	I wrote **two** names of flowers...
	You match! You learn!
	...*Where* did you learn these.
	What the fuck is *"bird's milk"*/GOOD LUCK!!!
	
	[(MUCH) LATER.]
	**THERE.** GOD.
	Did you have fun~?
	That... isn't--- [*note: you don't say "have fun," verb "ima-" is ownership-have] YOU HAVE. **A LOT.** OF FLOWERS.
	
	By the way, uh--- You forgot one.
	H-Huh? How---
	Have a pen?
	Uh, yeah...
	
	[Basil, but Croatian]
--
[re:"bird's milk," Weeb linked this: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=37VebUxrbKI]
MLIJEKO BORBE!!! = MILK (OF[*]) FIGHT!!!
[*note: essentially like saying "fight milk" but you can't use a noun as a descriptor in Croatian]