---
slug: au-thing
title: "AU color-thing"
date: 2023-04-19
da: 
big: y
desc: |-
  ??
css: .da{margin:1em 0 0;} .bonus{font-size:.95em; margin-top:-.5em;} .bonus li{margin:.25em 0;} .bonus li ul li{margin-top:0;}
---
<!--DO NOT PUBLISH until rewriting title!!-->

Maaaay have spent like four days, on and off, writing about Aubrey talking to a rock for >15k words. (And then four *more* days, albeit in much shorter sessions, drawing all this!) The ending where Basil *and* Sunny die is gut-wrenching on many levels but I am extremely tired of every other comment being like "oh, well, it's only a matter of time before the others kill themselves too :(" like. no!! Boring answer!!! It's going to suck absolute shit but life is not (always) a depression-fest and I believe in them!!!!

...Also, it's a good excuse to focus largely on these two without getting caught up in the rest of the group dynamics, since, *y'know.* I like that everyone-lives postgame mess in its own right, don't get me wrong... but I think *this* version of the tragedy is good for dragging out a particular, erm, *side* of Kel that refuses to come up as easily otherwise. It's inevitable no matter what, but ~stuff can exacerbate it, y'know? I even made him a new friend :)

<i>Ahem.</i> I make zero promises or guarantees of anything, but the idea has been living in my head rent-free ever since I learned this ending existed, so~ Also, I adore <i class="omo">Omori</i>'s use of color symbolism (visual media where hues and relationships between thereof have strong thematic resonance, my beloved...) so I wanted to try my hand at some design-based storytelling (er, definitely more in the side squares than the flailing at outfit design), and so here we are ᕕ( ᐛ )ᕗ

<blockquote class="da" markdown="1">
Anyway, outfit design is an eternal struggle, send tweet. While I would <em>like</em> to say I put in as much thought to the palette choices (and specific details) as the little color-squares, it was 100% winged lmao; all I really had was “uhh [X] looks similar to [Y] sometimes maybe here I guess.” Normally I would do a few concepts before "final" drawings but it’s not like I’m comicking this or anything, twas just for fun~
</blockquote>

<details open><summary>bonus general thoughts re:clothing choices:</summary>
<div class="bonus" markdown="1">
- Takes place predominantly over the cold season (autumn/winter), but Kel being a teenage boy is impervious to cold sometimes. [actually maybe nix this note, Aubrey doesn't look particularly cozy either]
- Kel in general doesn't change; lots of orange (more yellow than red), white, and some hints of gray. Stay away from blues/blacks/darks and reds. Very much feels like he never takes off the basketball jersey, but not necessarily the same *exact* getup. Shaves his legs later?
	- Longer hair with potential ponytali is just me sniping that aspect from various fanart, I think it's fun.
- Aubrey has a dark phase but reintroduces color with time. Some sort of jacket+skirt combo seems to have been a mainstay for [a while](https://notabird.site/OMORI_GAME/status/1396360249221685248); ribbon and red gloves (always the same) are nearly always obligatory. Unsure if blue before the end?
	- After a re-dye, hair is more purple-tinted? It stays long here for recognizability but a trim wouldn't *not* work.
- Hero isn't "onscreen" too much, but when he does he's 1) still looking familiar and 2) in the scene shown in the lineup, should visually "match" Aubrey a lot more than Kel.
Overall I intentionally avoided describing appearances because it's not super important, the thing is written and people can imagine whatever for immersion, but hey! Wanted to scribble stuff anyway.
</div></details>