---
slug: omori
title: "..."
date: 2023-02-06
a-url: -alter
dark: y
da: --948448397
desc: |-
  Redraw of three stages of the Omori boss fight, faded together into one picture. Text is written in the upper and lower margins, but scribbled out.
css: "#end{text-align:center; margin:2em 0;} #alter{display:inline-block; text-align:center; text-transform:uppercase; padding:.15em .35em .25em; text-decoration:none; letter-spacing:.1em; font-size:1.15em; border:.15em #800000 solid;} #alter:hover,#alter:focus,#alter:active{color:red; border-color:#000;} #alter:before{content:'{';} #alter:after{content:'}';}"
---
From [the deviantArt description](https://www.deviantart.com/a-flyleaf/art/--948448397):
<blockquote class="da" markdown="1">
<i class="omo">Omori</i>’s endgame was devastatingly beautiful but y’know, bittersweet as the ending cutscenes are, I think this is the part that’s *really* gonna haunt me.

This is three versions in a fading trenchcoat; separate stages + further rambling on sta.sh: <b>major spoiler warning applies</b>

🙃
</blockquote>
<blockquote class="da" markdown="1" id="altdesc">
there is something <em style="text-transform:uppercase;font-style:normal;">about</em> the avatar of escapism turning into the embodiment of raw self-loathing but even then, even after everything, his last action is to offer comfort. because that’s what he’s always existed to do, and it’s always been a little self-destructive, but four years of festering will warp it beyond recognition—or, more likely, reveal what’s been there from the start.

self-hatred is still a defense mechanism, at the end of the day. hurting yourself before anyone else can get to you, as if it’ll build up immunity and not threaten to kill you if left unchecked.

I’m in pain, dudes.

----

Took about ~3–4 hours, referencing [offcial sprites](https://omori.fandom.com/wiki/OMORI_(Enemy)#GALLERY) with a couple extra arm-shapes to fill the space. Had [the distorted theme](https://piped.video/watch?v=bKC8qqqLZ6A) on loop for a majority of it, because I like to suffer, and I still don’t quite hear those voices everyone in the comment section is talking about but still. Visuals alone do not do this game justice—nor does sound alone, not even (I’d argue) watching a playthrough, because you don’t *get* those moments Omori isn’t listening to you anymore.

Did not expect him of all characters to make me this goddamn sad. I didn’t want to attack him for a good few rounds. 8(

Anyway, first version’s background is a flipped+faded version of the texture on the other two, and the wonky text was written with my left hand since [that’s apparently what Omocat did](https://www.omocat-blog.com/post/189112408140/the-two-fonts-in-omori-one-was-written-with-my). And *that’s it <span style="display:inline-block">that’s all I got</span>*
</blockquote>

<p id="end"><a id="alter" href="omori-alter">alter</a></p>