---
title: boss rush speedrun (s Mari)
date: 2023-06-28
slug: boss-rush
css: ".box figure{margin-top:1em;} .box li ul{margin-bottom:0;} #boss li ul{margin-bottom:.25em;} .nob{font-weight:normal;} small{font-size:.85em;}"
---
As prompted by Weeb, some quickfire thoughts on [the Headspace bosses](https://omori.fandom.com/wiki/ENEMIES#BOSSES)---and, only tenuously relatedly, speculation on Sunny's family dynamics, particularly with Mari.

<div id="boss" markdown="1">
## boss rush
- <b>Boss</b>™: Exists! A while back I found [a very neat theory which posits that Boss is based on Basil](https://lastvalyrian.tumblr.com/post/671471488011993088/whats-the-deal-with-boss). I like it, I think it has merit! I barely paid attention to this guy in my first playthrough, but I don't think I'll find too much to *dis*agree with here!
- <b>Ye Olde Sprout</b>: Idk! Apparently reappears in Black&nbsp;Space?? I vaguely remember *some* post about the potential significance of that, maybe he was looking at a photo before the gang rudely ~~beat him to death~~ interrupted, but I don't remember either the post or the encounter that well.
- <b>Kite Kid</b>: As touched on [last round](not-meta#pinwheel), there's definitely a symbolic line to be drawn between memories, trees, and pinwheels; current thought is that pinwheels specifically signal *good* memories, innocent and free-blowing relics of childhood. Which has little to do with Kite Kid directly, but all I really have to say about him specifically is that he was was warning sign #1 that I was overleveled.
- <b>Pluto:</b> Obligate flexing joke aside, there's probably something to interrogate here where space and graveyards are concerned. (Pluto links them via [caretaker guy](https://omori.fandom.com/wiki/OLD_BEARDY)---who, oh yeah, has some *ominous fucking lines* about the spirits.)
- <b>Earth</b>: Did not fight, RIP.
- <b>Life Jam</b>: I'm still stumped on the bread/life connection. Food is sustenance, and there's an obvious toast pun, but... >8Vc
	- Hmm. Food is sustenance (necessary to live); Orange Oasis, a completely optional vacation area (an escape within an escape), is based on food in all but name. Too much of a good thing.... (Relatedly: Kel's a big eater, much as he rejects milk (which is white, thus relates to White Space, escapism in its emptiest form). No conclusions, only connections.)
	- Anyway tho Kool-Aid Guy™©® Boss Funney.
- <b>Download Window</b>: *Baffling fucking miniboss. I don't know anything.*
	- Didn't get to see it attack, btw. "You are overleveled as all fuck" warning #2...!
- <b>Captain Spaceboy(/Space Ex-Boyfriend)</b>: = Sunny, and maybe = dad (if only because Divorce)? The later hair color change definitely sticks out; pink confirmed for <i class="omo">Omori</i> emo color??
- <b>King Crawler</b>: Appeared out of nowhere! Underrated, arguably underutilized! Definitely *something* to be said about the whole "made of dead sprout moles" thing. ~~Sure hope Sunny didn't see a certain cursed movie, btw.~~
- <b>King Carnivore</b>: Also did not fight. Sad! Uhhh points of note: is also a King, looks like a watermelon, and its "Root" minibosses look *very* similar to Abbi's tentacles.
- <b>Shady Mole, Maximus I--III</b>: *No meta only laffs.* Seriously, I got nothing right now, these guys cracked me up. I love the sprout moles....
- <b>Sweetheart</b>: Mari's perfectionism, But Evil? Weird Freudian attraction shit (considering the Spaceboy fling)?? Becomes a maid (to *Perfectheart,* at that!) later??? IDK.
- <b>Nefarious Chip</b>: *So fucking funny and for <strong class="omo nob">what</strong>.* Also a childhood memory!
	- So I remembered that the origin cookbook came up in the true route (via Kel and Hero's sleepover), and it might in Hikikomori while packing, but more pertinently: *oh, huh, "Papa" changed to "Nefarious."*
- <b>Unbread Twins</b>: Somethig something life/death religious imagery does Basil is jesus, Sunny to Basil is Angel to Mikhael, big question marks everywhere around here and these guys and everything honestly.
	- Playthrough tidbit: They actually posed a *slight* challenge and it was, at that point, a relief!! ...Still not too difficult though lmao, I think the party hit max levels shortly after.
- <b>Jawsum</b>: Dad... 2!! (If Hero:Sunny then Hero's father figure:Sunny's.) Interestingly, he's also the only other character called a "boss," iirc, but far as I've yet unpacked there's *no* connection between the sharkman and either playground-Boss or Basil....
- <b>Roboheart</b>: ZGVzZXJ2ZWQgYmV0dGVy
- <b>Mutantheart/Roboheart</b>: *Who???* Uhh, *also* Mari-connected, which is more obvious with <u>Perfect</u>heart (they even share boss battle backgrounds, though Mari's is Switch-exclusive) than the other two.
- <b>Slime Girls</b>: Mari 3, But Fucked Up??? Uhh, they raise Many Questions and all of them suck. ~~By which I mean it's mostly stuff I can't talk about on GitHub, whoops.~~
- <b>Humphrey</b>: *I fucking hate this guy*---and for reasons that I *also* can't talk about here lmao. Suffice it to say that, although I *know* he's based on a children's book and has notably been corrupted over the iterations, and is linked to Sunny himself, I just!! don't like him!!!!! He sucks!!!!!!!!!!!
	- Omocat has mentioned, on [apparently multiple occasions](https://omori.fandom.com/wiki/HUMPHREY_(Location)#TRIVIA), that Humphrey is also *their* least favorite (location, at least) and he could've even been optional. The potential optionality surprises me, honestly, but besides that I feel #vindicated.
- Snaley: *Honestly I just find it funny the Fandom wiki puts him on the boss list.* For all my gripes with that site... +1.
</div>

## with family
So fun fact, when I started playing <i class="omo">Omori</i> I thought Mari was Sunny's mom. This is obviously Very Wrong, but I also don't think the idea is *entirely* misaimed? I think Sunny has a whole bundle of neuroses surrounding both parents, but(/and, honestly, it's A Factor) Mari has largely taken on both the role and subsequent projections of his mother.

This came up, btw, because Dad gets mentioned not once but *twice* in the boss thoughts; Mom gets zilch, nada, even though she's actually still around.

### the trouble of parents
So like, we see Sunny and Mari together a hell of a lot more than with either parent. The [Doylist](https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/WatsonianVersusDoylist) explanation has to do with this being an <i>Earthbound</i>-esque story, kids having adventures (and facing rather "adult," in the "grown-up, stressful, not playful and carefree" sense, situations) with little to no parental influence; video game reviewer Nitro&nbsp;Rad has some good commentary on this in [his Earthbound video](https://piped.video/watch?v=E7Pj2RNGsU4). Even ignoring that, none of the kids' parents (or guardians, in Basil's case) play a major story role, and it'd feel clunky to shoehorn most of them into, say, the Memory&nbsp;Lane scenes.

That Said, much as I am fascinated by Doylist rationale, I also want to pick at the story as presented. And what we *do* have is a mom who talks to her 16-year-old like he's a child, despite leaving him on his own for three days in a row, and also he is an Extreme&nbsp;Hermit and she expects him to pack up everything for the move within <72 hours (less, because sleep).

### side note
Because This Is The Internet, I feel the need to disclaim that I'm not trying to say, like, Sunny and Mari's parents are Evil and Irredeemable or whatever. I'm not trying to accuse their mom of like, serial neglect, and relatedly I will admit to potential values dissonance on my own part; I didn't grow up in the 90s but I *know* kids in previous generations had a hell of a lot more freedom than I did. Like, I cannot *imagine* a scenario like the beach memory (two teenagers drive their younger siblings (and similarly-young friends) to the beach, entirely unsupervised) flying unquestioned by my local suburbia in the year of our hell 2023---but the same people would also admit just as readily that, Back In Their Day, as long as they were home by sundown *kids could do whatever really.*

All of which is to say, I think Sunny and Mari's parents were absent in a "normal" enough way; not always physically present, definitely not *emotionally* present (healthy coping mechanisms where??), but I'm sure they still care about their kids and all that.

And that's *before* Mari dies!

### where was I going with this again
At this point I was going to do a bunch of bullet points on "what we (I, so far) know" but like, I don't (didn't) actually want to write an essay here, so have my conclusions with zero further backing or buildup:

- Mari took it upon herself to be there for Sunny (when their parents often weren't). He used to, and still does (through several layers of purple scribble), look to her for comfort and safety.
- Sunny would've wanted to make Mari proud regardless because they're good siblings, they mostly get along---but the feeling that he owes her so much was, and continues to be, a *hugely* complicating factor.
- This makes Mari more of a (this sounds weirdly clinical but bear with me) prominent feminine guardian presence in Sunny's life than their actual mother. "Maternal" would not be, I don't think, an *in*appropriate word here.
- But Mari is also a teenager who openly admits she's not perfect as everyone sees her as, much as she keeps up appearances. While I'm not sure if piano-playing spirit-Mari is "the 'real' Mari" (I don't know how much to weigh the "ghosts are real actually" idea, and think it's kinda besides the point)--- "Maybe I pushed you too hard" is a *very* telling line.
- Sunny does not strike me as the type of kid to throw things when mad. He is *extremely* not the type of person to get physical in an argument. [Removed content](https://lparchive.org/Omori/Update%2075/) confirms (for however much you're willing to evaluate the cutting room floor as "canon") that Mari *actively blocked his path* at the stairwell; that he practiced until "[his] fingers [shook] in pain."
	- \>inb4 "oh so you're saying Mari deserved it" *no! No!!!!!!* @zero-reading-comprehension internet commenter in my head, *no!!!!!!!!!!!!*
- Mari being a motherly figure to Sunny is not at *all* mutually-exclusive with him having *mixed as all hell* feelings about her, and I think those were brewing long before she died.

Dragging this back to Headspace: Guilt has prevented Sunny from seeing his sister as anything but a hellish jumpscare, smiling specter, or something nigh-unrecognizable. But those mixed feelings slither their way into Headspace anyway; there is a princess in a purple castle whose expectations are laughably high, and there is a trio of sisters who push novelty to the point of torment.

Mother? What mother? Only Mari.  
(or, TL;DR: If Mom was or ever had been a larger figure in Sunny's life, surely she or some equivalent would've showed up more than... y'know, Basically\* Fuckall.)  
(\*also I am aware the mom *does* show up in Black&nbsp;Space---if only in the context of knowing the truth. I'll probably have more thoughts on that when I find it, but for now my overall impression of "Was Not Around" still stands.)

### dad, btw
Who knows if "You are not my son" is verbatim something he said to or within earshot of Sunny, or if it's purely a manifestation of Sunny's guilt. I do not get the impression either kid was close with their father; apparently no one in the friend group thought he would've approved of Mari and Hero's relationship, and that was like, as Wholesome™ and Perfect™ as it gets. (Or, well, far as anyone else could tell. Note the ironic "™"s. [Golden child](https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/golden_child) solidarity...!)

What I'm getting at is that I've seen multiple people posit that the high expectations were mostly dad's fault, and there's nothing that outright *confirms* this but between the mom being an almost-non-presence and what little we *do* have of the guy not being the most shining example of parenthood... I mean, I try not to give fanon too much weight, but it doesn't *not* check out to me.

Also something something Sunny and his father are Male™\* and then Father Left, there are probably family/gender dynamics there that I don't know enough to talk about. I think Sunny *wanted*(/still wants) a more positive paternal figure, with Hero being both an ideal for himself and a Good Older Guy To Look Up To, which of course implies the *absence* of one in his actual father.  
<small>\*we are not touching the "does Sunny is egg (trans slang)" theory-headcanon-concept today, but it's worth a passing mention while we're here.... much, *much* to unpack with Sunny and feminine/female/Girl™ stuff.</small>

I have less conclusive thoughts here but it's also worth mentioning the dad *left.* Chopped down the offending object, It Is Not Allowed. *Denialist escapism solidarity!!!!!!*

## TL;DR??
- All the bosses raise Many Question and I am devouring symbolisms with a spork on the daily.
- Sunny and Mari's parents were/are absent. Not on purpose, but nonetheless deeply, *deeply* flawed---even before Mari died.
- Mari is a mother figure to Sunny, and he has difficulty reconciling this with her problems and how he feels about them/her. Thus her more overt imagined manifestations are extreme (very good, very bad), and the rest goes into certain side characters.
	- If actual-mom was more significant in Sunny's psyche, I'd expect to see her more around Headspace. But since she's not....
- Dad's out of the picture, and Sunny's still trying (however subconsciously) to fill that gap. They have some parallels also.

Imagine having a coherent single-topic post...!

## bonus round
- I don't know jack shit about Spaceboy's dad except that he is a character who exists. I am sure that meeting him will wrap up all the loose ends and not raise any further questions!
- Mari... Mary... Mother Mary... is Egg (citation: [artbook interview](https://web.archive.org/web/20230503015449/https://notabird.site/aspiring_aster/status/1635793726709837824)). listen there's just a Lot of weird symbolisms going on with her (and everything else, really) okay

<!--tbqh I might split this off into its own post because it's only *barely* connected, maybe condense shit more... but eh. Eh. this is the kind of niggling perfectionist urge I am specifically trying to avoid.... >:V maybe a layout reset would help, hmm.-->