---
title: Discord notedump
date: 2023-06-10
slug: 2023-january
css: "#discord{background:#1E1F22; padding:.5em;} .note{max-width:40em; margin:-.75em auto 1.5em; font-size:.85em; padding:0 .65em; color:#bfbfbf;} .noi{font-style:normal;} .dc a,.note a:hover,.note a:focus,.note a:active{color:#00A8FC; text-decoration:none;} .dc a:hover,.dc a:active,.dc a:focus{color:inherit;} .dc blockquote{border-color:#4E5058; margin:-.5em 0;} .above{margin-bottom:0; margin-top:2em;} .note ul{margin-top:-.5em;} .note blockquote{margin:-.25em 0;} .bq{padding-bottom:.5em;} .eta{font-family:sans-serif;} .note p{margin:.5em 0;}"
---
Heck it, I do monthly art roundups, why not the same for "meta."

Started playing January 12; finished February 5. Starts abruptly since most analysis-thoughts from this period were scattered throughout the initial playthrough, but for the sake of not driving myself nuts again I'm ignoring that for now....

Pardon the yelling and swearing and general lack of polish. Or don't, it's authentic as it gets.

<div id="discord">
<blockquote class="dc" markdown="1">
<div class="dc-info time">1/28<span class="x"> 02:01</span></div>
thinkin about the lake scene again.  
\- <em class="omo">Did Basil leave the Egret flower tho.</em>!!! there’s one in <em class="omo noi">his</em> house, very prominently, and one by the picnic basket! and another at the grave; who knows if he’s visited, not me (yet)!! fuck?!!! (Aubrey wouldn’t have left it surely, not if she hasn’t told the Hooligans anything….)
</blockquote>
<div class="note" markdown="1">
In retrospect I think this is one of those details that doesn't need a diegetic explanation. Also, the name "Hooligans" is only used in the battle overlay, never by any of the characters, so at this point I tend to think that's just Sunny's insert.
</div>

<blockquote class="dc" markdown="1">
<div class="dc-info time">1/28 <span class="x"> 09:32</span></div>
<https://notabird.site/OMORI_GAME/status/1396360249221685248> <em class="omo noi">I just realized this could be a timeline???</em> if it’s one image a year that’s 4 since Mari’s death *and 4 between that and Headspace. the fuck*
</blockquote>
<div class="note" markdown="1">
*Eh,* I no longer think the Headspace kids are meant to have specific ages. They seem especially young at the start, though, so there's still merit to this....
</div>

<blockquote class="dc bq" markdown="1">
<div class="dc-info time">2/06 <span class="x">13:10</span></div>
apparently the sprout mole village song samples this <https://piped.video/watch?v=Hy8kmNEo1i8>; firstly <em class="omo noi">ohhh</em> that skibidi song is *definitely* referencing it, second from the top  comment:
> I know it’s sort of a joke song, but Scatman John actually had a pretty inspirational life. **He was born with a stutter that made him too nervous to sing, so he played piano for most of his career.** It was only in his 50s that he decided to become a scat performer and made this song as a way to inspire kids with stutters. It made him a worldwide hit, (especially in Japan for some reason) and he did two more notable songs before he died of lung cancer a few years later at 57. He was completely at peace when he passed, declaring:
> 
> ‘Whatever God wants is fine by me ... I've had the very best life. I have tasted beauty.’ 
> 
> Scatman John. Legend.
</blockquote>
<div class="note" markdown="1">
YouTube comment algorithm sucks, as does the inability to link specific comments... the quote is by YT user @ferghalicious1480. [Skibidi song](https://piped.video/watch?v=ceE_TKZhOwc) unrelated.
</div>

<blockquote class="dc" markdown="1">
<div class="dc-info time">2/07 <span class="x">02:14</span></div>
more sobering: Mari’s not wearing the recital outfit, *it’s the one from when she saved Sunny from drowning. they’re not the same.* (it’s a little hard to tell but the recital dress has a collar, & the skirt is separate in the duet animation)
</blockquote>
<div class="note" markdown="1">
(referring to the Mari that appears in White&nbsp;Space and at the pier)
</div>

<blockquote class="dc" markdown="1">
<div class="dc-info time">2/11 <span class="x">11:19</span></div>
random thought wrt Hero’s reaction to the truth: There’s a fucked-up part of him that *wants* to be responsible. He can relate—he *understood* why Mari would’ve done it, if she had. [Kel and Aubrey don’t! They’re not suicidal <em class="omo noi">(thank god)</em> but *Hero* had no comment.] And now he doesn’t even get that?  
(that could be a fic spark but hmmm. no real further thoughts just a Concept)

later edit re:suicidal thoughts—well, ok, they didn’t get why *mari* did it. the identity of the person in question, and everything they (thought they) knew about her, is A Factor. still Highly doubt kel’s ever considered it, aubrey… less sure, but generally want to say no despite it all.  
this light is a bit more 8,) on Hero’s part though since it suggests he and Mari were close enough he *would* know she was, or had any sort of tendency in that direction. since they both have chronic perfectionism-itis, Well,,
</blockquote>
<div class="note" markdown="1">
The dialogue I'm picking at here is three entire lines from right before the gang revisits the treehouse (entire sequence (and then some) transcribed on [this (very image-heavy) page](https://lparchive.org/Omori/Update%2043/)):
> <span class="omo">Kel</span>: "Even after all this time... I-I still don't understand why she would do it.  
> <span class="omo">Aubrey</span>: "I... I don't think any of us ever will."  
> <span class="omo">Hero</span> [who's already stepped ahead, and with one of very few instances of his teary talksprite]: "... Hey, guys... Let's... Let's keep going."

That is a *very* cospicuous non-confirmation.
</div>

<blockquote class="dc" markdown="1">
<div class="dc-info time">2/11 <span class="x">19:13</span></div>
reading the boss rush dialogue page. <em class="omo noi">girl what. whyyyyyyyyy</em>  
> <span class="eta">[[dialogue screenshots](https://omori.fandom.com/wiki/BOSS_RUSH#QUOTES) were here; Basil Rush Event \> Friends Dialogue \> Friends (Boss Rush Lobby)]</span>
>
> <span class="omo">Aubrey</span> [with the upset ":T" face]: "Everyone's simulations look so accurate. Sigh... Is that really what I look like?"
>
> <span class="omo">Hero</span> [with his one and only teary sprite]: "I don't know about you guys, but I think my simulation is kind of weird..."

RIP to him too... geez, haven't watched what *happens* yet (these dialogues happen if you lose to the simulations) but he seems real down about this, Hero's crying sprite almost never shows up \:(
</blockquote>
<div class="note" markdown="1">
I'll take "insecurities that are not so much as gestured towards literally anywhere else (that I've yet noticed)" for $500. (Kel, naturally, is just hyped about the whole thing.)
</div>
<blockquote class="dc" markdown="1">
<div class="dc-info time x">2/11 19:41</div>
+also, watching the boss rush vid in general: *ohhhh, the healing sound effect is a Mari Thing,* or at least [her skill](https://piped.video/watch?v=3Wd3jPGxPaA&t=1924) uses it. Hm. it was definitely absent in Black Space but not sure about like, Sweetheart's Castle and other no-Mari heal points?
</blockquote>
<div class="note" markdown="1">
Have yet to confirm.
</div>

<blockquote class="dc" markdown="1">
<div class="dc-info time">2/12 <span class="x">12:03</span></div>
realizing basil doesn't have any damn flowers in his hospital room except like, two little bouquets in the corner. big F
</blockquote>
<div class="note" markdown="1">
The hospital comes up again somewhere else (will be linked when I get to it), but while we're here: I'm really, *really* not sure how literally to take the hospital scenes. Regardless, we get one&nbsp;(1) glimpse into his room and it's a *very* significant cutscene; flowers would be distracting.

Still though. F.
</div></div>

At this point I went into a small <i>Yume&nbsp;Nikki</i> dive, which I've revisited at least a couple times since so I'll put it on a separate page. Unsure if I want all the miscellaneous stuff separate or on one giant page...

Also, **not comprehensive**. The nature of batshit Freudian analysis is that it sometimes (often) skirts very, very close to content restrictions, so it's been punted [offsite]. <!--note to self: put it here anyway just to get the HTML down, then copypaste what jekyll spits out-->